Pick the one that's right, and just
never change it. And then you're really
only looking at output, cuz you don't
want to change the variables
other than how much load is going
through the muscle. That's the variable
that you only variable you want to
change, and that's your focus. You're
getting stronger every single workout.
If you're not getting stronger every
single workout, you're not doing it
right.
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective beyond
what a lot of the influencers have to
say, because most of them are sports
performance guys. What I want to talk
about today is the myth, and it is a
myth, that you need to continually
change your exercises. Now, you can
change your exercises. The right reason
for that would be you want to build a
skill, like for example, in the Westside
Barbell X3 Academy. There's a lot of
different athletic things you do,
explosive jumping, different agility
maneuvers. All of that is in an effort
to not just get stronger, but be more
athletic. They call it readiness. You
know, are you are you prepared for an
athletic event? So,
I don't want to confuse that. So, that
that's a little bit different. But
ultimately, I see all the time, you need
to change your exercises. You need to
like shock the muscle into growth.
That's something Arnold Schwarzenegger
said.
Spectacularly wrong. What you need to do
is not change your exercises. So, I got
a I got a thing video I want to react to
here.
Let's check out what Dorian Yates has to
say.
>> Perfect magic about changing your
exercise. Ooh, it's change the exercise,
so I'm going to grow now. No, it just
knows when it's been put under so much
stress that it needs to react and needs
to grow. It won't know which [__]
exercise you're doing. It just knows if
it's under stress. So, if you've got
exercises that work for you, that's
effective, i.e. isolation leg curl,
compound stiff-leg deadlift. I do this
routine every time for [__] 12 years,
20 years. It doesn't matter. You don't
need to change
>> Dorian's routine hasn't changed in
12 years. So,
and neither mine hasn't changed in 10. I
mean,
it has, but it hasn't. There's been
little tweaks, but ultimately, the chest
press is always chest press. Like, it's
the X3 chest press. I'm not doing
anything else. The myth came from the
idea that if you switch exercises, you
become sore again. But, it's just
because that movement pattern, your
body's not exactly accustomed to.
So, that creates
some tissue damage that the body has to
attenuate to, which is subtracted
from the amount of growth that you're
going to have, not additive, subtracted.
Even though you may feel like you got a
better effect by switching exercises,
you don't. So, what you want to do
is pick the exercise that is
comfortable for all the joints involved,
and where you know you'll be able to
progressively overload in that period.
Like, if one exercise, like like the
French press, when you get your
have the bar right here, you have the
bands coming from the ground, and you're
extending straight up. Like, that
movement, some people like, some people
don't. We have a couple of different
tricep
experienced movements that you can do.
So, pick the one that's right, and just
never change it. And then you're really
only looking at output, cuz you don't
want to change the variables
other than how much load is going
through the muscle. That's the variable
that you only variable you want to
change, and that's your focus. You're
getting stronger every single workout.
If you're not getting stronger every
single workout, you're not doing it
right.
>> As Dorian Yates would say, you take a
couple days off your training
if if you stop getting stronger
couple days off your training and then
return with a slightly abbreviated
program. So, take a little bit of the
exercise volume out, add intensity where
it needs to be added cuz ultimately if
you're doing less total work, you can go
harder at the few sets that you are
doing and that's the way to progress.
That's the way to build a champion
physique that, you know, takes years to
do. But, I hope this helped.
Leave a comment. Let me know what you
think and I'll try and get any questions
answered.
>> [music]
>> Thanks. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
>> [music]
>> We've got the answer for you.